So we wrote our first toggle car hit a mutation and we used it to leverage the local cache state of
Apollo in order to modify our application so that now our cart hidden is stored in Apollo instead of
redux.
Now that's really good.
With something where it's an easy boolean value that we're switching.
But what about something more complicated like updating an array of some kind.
Well that's exactly what we're gonna do next.
What we're gonna do next is we are going to modify our array of carte items whenever the user adds them
to their cart and by doing so hopefully we'll be able to see more of the way that we write these mutations.
So what we're going to do is we're going to first identify what the actual initial state of the data
will be for our cart item.
So for us of course we know that we're gonna call it cart items as we did in our reducer with our cart
reducer and we're gonna set it as a default value of an empty array.
Now what we want to do inside of our resolves is we want to add in something to our item.
So we know that whenever we add items we increase the quantity.
Right.
We had some code inside our cart utilized where depending on if the item was already in the cart or
not we would either increase the quantity or add a new quantity.
So we're gonna have to do something similar.
So inside of our resolve as though we need to make sure that our code knows that that object that is
an item might have this quantity property.
So we'll say extend type item.
So we're extending from the item type inside of our database in our graph queue all server and we want
to put this new quantity value and it's going to be an integer that might or might not be there.
Now inside of our mutation we know that we need our new add item to cart method and this is going to
take an item which is going to be an item and what this returns back to us is an array of items.
Now there may be items there they might not be items there.
Well we don't have to ensure that this item exists in here but we know that this array must come back.
Now what we're gonna do is we are going to write that new mutation.
So we are going to say here after our toggle cart hit a mutation or add item to cart inside of here
we are going to ignore the root and we are going to pass in a variable called item.
So this item is going to represent the item we want to add to our cart.
So here we'll just make sure to pluck it off of our arguments object and then we also want our cache.
So what we're going to do is we are going to first get the cart items off of our cache state and what
we're going to do is we're going to run those cart utilize that we did inside of our reducer that we're
used to so we're actually going to copy these can't utilize and we're going to put them inside of our
new graph Q all folder where we're going to use them whereas right here.
So let's just drop them in here
and now we have access to our add item to cart function which we're going to use so let's import that
in
from our cart details folder file sorry and now inside of our resolve our what we're going to do is
we're going to first pluck off our cart items because as you remember this function expects both the
cart items that currently exist and then the cart item we're trying to add now back inside of our resolve
our we're going to need to pull off the cart items the same way that we did inside of our target cart
hidden where we pulled off the cart hidden value.
So let's write that query and we'll call it get cart items which is equal to this GQ El object where
we simply pull cart items from the client almost identical to our pull car hidden query and now what
we're going to do is we are just going to add that to our actual resolve or definition by saying that
we get the cart items from the return of cash dark read query where we pass in our new query.
Now of course the items will be the carte items that we're pulling from in our query.
So we're just structuring them off and then what we're going to do is we are going to make the new carte
items as a constant.
And this is going to be our function where we add item to cart passing in our existing cart items as
well as the new item we're trying to add.
So now this will give us back the array that we're used to getting back whenever we called our add item
to cart function next what we're going to do is we're going to say cache dot right query so just like
we did here.
We're going to write to this query of get cart items except now the data goes to our car items and our
new car items.
And that's literally all it is and then we're just gonna return our new car items so if you've noticed
this pattern pretty much looks exactly like what we had up here.
Any transformations we need to make we just do them inside of the function.
We just make sure to return what it is that we're getting as the new values.
And then we set them with cash right query and now we have the ability to add items to the cart lowercase
that I accidentally kept that capital Yeah.
So we have this mutation now.
So now we can actually update our code to both use our car items inside of our cart dropdown as well
as modify our checkout item or our collection item so that whenever you click the Add it adds the item
to our cart items so let's do that inside of our cart dropdown first so inside of our cart dropdown
we need to remove our current redux bindings what we have is this map states a props that we don't need
anymore because this was what was pulling in the cart items but now we're going to use our local query.
So let's get rid of this connect because we don't need that either.
And then we can remove our imports that are calling our redux libraries that bring those in.
Now we do have this last dispatch as well and we don't want to use this either.
Instead now what we want to do is use the new toggle hidden that we have inside of our mutation.
So I'm going to show you how we can actually add both the query and mutation to this cart dropdown component.
So let's get rid of this dispatch let's get rid of this toggle car hin and instead here let's just call
toggle cart hidden which is a prop that will pass in now inside of our car dropdown we will make a new
cart dropdown container of Duchess X and what we'll do is we will import in react from react
and we'll import in both our query and our mutation components because we need both our mutation and
our query and I'll show you how we can actually write that out.
So let's just first import energy.
Well from Apollo boost
and then import.
In our cart dropdown component
what we need is we need both the cart dropdown selector as well as the mutation selector that we wrote
before.
So not selector.
The actual query object so we can use the same one that we had inside of our cart icon container
just copy this over.
Now again as the scales you might want to move these into their own files that we can just import from
but right now it's not too big of a deal.
And we also want to make sure that we get the get cart items that we just wrote right.
The new get cart items that we have stored in our local cache so this will be equal to GQ Elle of an
object or its cart items on the client
so hopefully now this pattern is beginning to make sense.
We've been writing it pretty much the same way.
And this container pattern is very similar to what we've done already for the last few lessons and now
we're just gonna write our card dropdown container which is equal to this function that will return
back.
So here what we're gonna do is we are just going to wrap both of our new query and mutation components
around our cart dropdown component.
The order does not really matter.
You just have to make sure that you write the functions so that you get access to the actual value that
we're trying to get from either the query or the mutation.
So we can start with the mutation and we'll pass in our toggle cart hidden
and then inside of here we have our function or we get the toggle part hidden and inside of this function
what we will turn back is our query and in this query what we'll get back is are get cart items as the
query
and in here will be another function that gives us back our data.
Which we know will be our cart items
and out of this function will finally return our cart dropdown
so hopefully that's not too too confusing right.
This mutation is is a function that gives us our tall car hidden which in turn returns our query which
gives us our data which all is wrapped around our car dropdown so here we're gonna pass our car items
in as the cart items.
And we're also going to pass in our toggle cart hidden as toggle cart hit in and now let's export this
as the default value.
So now that we have our new export ID card dropdown container we have to make sure that change where
we were using our old cart dropdown inside of our header so here we're gonna say default as card dropdown
and then change the component to container and now if we look we should see that we have our new card
dropdown bound to our current toggle card hidden mutation.
So if we click it we see it hides it.
So everything is working.
The only thing now is we have to modify our checkout item so that we're able to add those items into
our cart.
So let's do that in the next lesson.